Amazon EC2 2.2.0 - Connector Guide (#391)
mulesoft/docs-connectors: modules/ROOT/pages/amazon/amazon-ec2-connector.adoc

= Amazon EC2 Connector - Mule 4
ifndef::env-site,env-github[]
include::_attributes.adoc[]
endif::[]

Support Category: Select

Amazon EC2 Connector v2.2

Anypoint Connector for Amazon EC2 provides connectivity to the Amazon Elastic Compute Cloud (Amazon EC2) API,

> enabling you to interface with Amazon EC2 to launch as many or as few virtual servers as you need, configure security and networking, and manage storage.

Reviewer: Consider adding this sentence, to clarify the prerequisites that come later:

"Amazon EC2 provides scalable computing capacity in the Amazon Web Services (AWS) cloud."

> [[prerequisites]]

Reviewer: Line 16:

To use Amazon EC2 Connector, you must have the following:
(remove "the")

* Access to Amazon Web Services - EC2.

> * To access AWS with the connector, you need AWS Identity and Access Management (IAM) user account credentials.

Reviewer: I'm guessing that these should actually be...:

* AWS Identity and Access Management (IAM) user account credentials
* Access to EC2 via the AWS cloud

> * Anypoint Studio version 7.0 (and later).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Anypoint Studio 7.0 or later
```

> * If you or your IAM users forget or lose the secret access key, create a new access key.

Reviewer: Isn't this really the same thing as the first list item? If they lose the key, it seems pretty obvious that they need to get new credentials....

If you disagree...:

```suggestion
* If lost, a new secret access key to IAM
```

[[compatibility]]
=== Compatibility

Amazon EC2 connector is compatible with:

[%header,cols="20s,80a",width=70%]
|===
|Application/Service |Version

> |Mule Runtime |4.0.0 and later

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|Mule runtime engine |4.0.0 and later
```
GLOBAL change to ALL connector docs. Suggested earlier as update to template.

|AWS SDK for Java |1.11.611
|Java |1.8.0_x
|Anypoint Studio |7.0 and later
|===

[[install]]
== Add the Connector to Your Project

> Anypoint Studio provides two ways to add the connector to your Studio project: from the Exchange button in the taskbar or from the Mule Palette.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Anypoint Studio provides two ways to add the connector to your Studio project: from the Exchange button in the Studio taskbar or from the Mule Palette tab.
```

=== Add the Connector Using Exchange

> 

Reviewer: Any transition text here? Maybe something about WHY a user would want to use Exchange instead of using Studio?

> . In Studio, create a Mule Project.

Reviewer: "Mule Project" is a UI control; a Mule project is what is being created

Therefore, this sentence should be :

"create a Mule project" 
OR 
"Click *File → New → Mule Project*"
per https://developer.mulesoft.com/tutorials/quick-start/developing-your-first-mule-application

Please attempt to understand and make this distinction.

> . Click the Exchange *(X)* icon in the upper left of the Studio task bar.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Click the Exchange icon *(X)* in the upper-left of the Studio task bar.
```

. In Exchange, click *Login* and supply your Anypoint Platform username and password.
. In Exchange, search for "ec2".

> . Select this connector, click *Add to project*.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Select the EC2 connector and click *Add to project*.
```

> . Follow the prompts to install this connector.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Follow the prompts to install the connector.
```
I love steps like this, which allow the user to just follow the interface....  :-)

=== Add the Connector in Studio

> 

Reviewer: DITTO previous comment about intro sentence.

> . In Studio, create a Mule Project.

Reviewer: DITTO prev. comment about UI label vs. thing itself.

> . In the Mule Palette, click *(X) Search in Exchange*.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. In the Mule Palette tab, click *(X) Search in Exchange*.
```

. In *Add Modules to Project*, type "ec2" in the search field.
. Click this connector's name in *Available modules*.
. Click *Add*.
. Click *Finish*.

[[config]]
== Configure the Connector Global Element

> To use the Amazon EC2 connector in your Mule application, configure a global Amazon EC2 element that can be used by all the Amazon EC2 connectors in your project.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To use Amazon EC2 Connector in your Mule application, configure a global Amazon EC2 element that can be used by all Amazon EC2 Connectors in your project. You can configure using Anypoint Studio's visual editor, an XML editor, or a standalone editor.
```

> === Configure With Studio Visual Editor

Reviewer: ```suggestion
=== Configure with Studio's Visual Editor
```

Reviewer: DITTO re. text transition between title and Step 1.
GLOBAL.
In the case of peer subtopics, try to focus on how the peers are different or why the user would me more interested in this one than the other(s).

> . Click *Global Elements* at the base of the canvas.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Click *Global Elements* at the base of the Studio canvas.
```

. In *Global Configuration Elements*, click *Create*.

> . In *Choose Global Type*, expand *Connector Configuration*, and select *Amazon EC2 EC2 configuration*.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. In *Choose Global Type*, expand *Connector Configuration* and select *Amazon EC2 configuration*.
```

. Click *OK*.
+
image::amazon/amazon-ec2-config-global-wizard.png[Global Element Configuration Wizard]
+

> . Configure the parameters according to instructions below.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. For simpler maintenance and better reusability of your project, create a configuration file `mule-artifact.properties` in the `src/main/resources` folder, using the following values:
```

+
[%header,cols="30s,70a",width=80%]
|===
|Studio Field |Description

> |Name |Enter a name for the configuration to reference it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|Name |A name for the configuration.
```
Why else would anyone name anything?
Also, the text intro makes clear that the user is using these values to configure, so we should define the values, not present an imperative step (enter). GLOBAL

|Access Key |Alphanumeric text string that uniquely identifies the user who owns the account.

> |Secret Key |Key that plays the role of a password.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|Secret Key |Key that acts as a password.
```
minimalism, Global English

Reviewer: Line 86
OMIT in favor of the following:

`src/main/resources` folder of your project.

> You can either enter your credentials into the global configuration properties, or reference a configuration file that contains these values. For simpler maintenance and better re-usability of your project, Mule recommends that you use a configuration file. Keeping these values in a separate file is useful if you need to deploy to different environments, such as production, development, and QA, where your access credentials differ.

Reviewer: Although you could enter your credentials into the global configuration properties, use a configuration file in case you need to deploy to different environments, such as production, development, and QA, where your access credentials differ.

+

> . In *Advanced*, keep *Reconnection strategy* with its default entries.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. In *Advanced*, make no changes to the default values in  *Reconnection strategy*.
```

. Click *Test Connection* to confirm that the parameters of your global configuration are accurate, and that Mule is able to successfully connect to your instance of Amazon EC2.

> . Click *OK* to save the global connector configurations.

Reviewer: Ditto: ". Click OK."

Reviewer: But wait...does "global connector configurations" imply that this whole task is the method that we don't recommend using? If so, then there is even more to consider about reworking this task.

> === Configure With the XML Editor or Standalone

Reviewer: ```suggestion
=== Configure with an XML Editor or a Standalone Editor
```

Reviewer: DITTO transition text.

> . Ensure that you have included the Amazon EC2 namespaces in your configuration file.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Ensure that you have included the Amazon EC2 namespaces in your configuration file:
```

+
[source,xml,linenums]
----
<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>

<mule xmlns:ec2="http://www.mulesoft.org/schema/mule/ec2"

> 	xmlns:dw="http://www.mulesoft.org/schema/mule/ee/dw"

Reviewer: list not edited

	xmlns:ee="http://www.mulesoft.org/schema/mule/ee/core"
	xmlns:http="http://www.mulesoft.org/schema/mule/http"
	xmlns="http://www.mulesoft.org/schema/mule/core"
	xmlns:doc="http://www.mulesoft.org/schema/mule/documentation"
	xmlns:spring="http://www.springframework.org/schema/beans"
	xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance"
	xsi:schemaLocation="
	http://www.mulesoft.org/schema/mule/ee/dw
	http://www.mulesoft.org/schema/mule/ee/dw/current/dw.xsd
	http://www.springframework.org/schema/beans
	http://www.springframework.org/schema/beans/spring-beans-current.xsd
	http://www.mulesoft.org/schema/mule/core
	http://www.mulesoft.org/schema/mule/core/current/mule.xsd
	http://www.mulesoft.org/schema/mule/http
	http://www.mulesoft.org/schema/mule/http/current/mule-http.xsd
	http://www.mulesoft.org/schema/mule/ee/core
	http://www.mulesoft.org/schema/mule/ee/core/current/mule-ee.xsd
	http://www.mulesoft.org/schema/mule/ec2
	http://www.mulesoft.org/schema/mule/ec2/current/mule-ec2.xsd">
<!-- Put your flows and configuration elements here -->

</mule>
----
+

> . Create a global Amazon EC2 configuration outside and above your flows, using the following global configuration code.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Create a global Amazon EC2 configuration outside and above your flows, using the following global configuration code:
```

</ec2:config>
----

== EC2 Connector Operations

> The Amazon EC2 connector supports the following Studio operations:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Amazon EC2 Connector supports the following Anypoint Studio operations:
* Amazon Machine Images (AMIs)
* Elastic IP addresses
* Elastic network interfaces (Amazon VPC)
* Instances
* Key pairs
* Tags
* Volumes and snapshots (Amazon EBS)
```

Reviewer: Never use an open-ended text (ending with a colon, in this case) as a leadin to a group of subtopics.

=== AMIs

> 

Reviewer: Lists not edited because they are verbatim names, right?

Reviewer: I do wonder if we can provide a text snippet that introduces the table in each subtopic, however....

* ModifyVolume
* ModifyVolumeAttribute
* ResetSnapshotAttribute
|===

> == Connector Namespace and Schema

Reviewer: Lines 391-3
When designing your application in Anypoint Studio, the act of dragging the connector from the palette onto the canvas automatically populates the XML code with the connector namespace and schema location:

Namespace: `+http://www.mulesoft.org/schema/mule/ec2+`

Schema Location: `+http://www.mulesoft.org/schema/mule/ec2/current/mule-ec2.xsd+`

> If you are manually coding the Mule application in Studio's XML editor or other text editor, paste lines these into the header of your configuration's XML, inside the `<mule>` tag.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you are manually coding the Mule application in Studio's XML editor or another text editor, paste these lines into the header of your configuration's XML, inside the `<mule>` tag:
```

<mule xmlns:ec2="http://www.mulesoft.org/schema/mule/ec2"
	xmlns:dw="http://www.mulesoft.org/schema/mule/ee/dw"
	xmlns:ee="http://www.mulesoft.org/schema/mule/ee/core"
	xmlns:http="http://www.mulesoft.org/schema/mule/http"
	xmlns="http://www.mulesoft.org/schema/mule/core"
	xmlns:doc="http://www.mulesoft.org/schema/mule/documentation"
	xmlns:spring="http://www.springframework.org/schema/beans"
	xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance"
	xsi:schemaLocation="
	http://www.mulesoft.org/schema/mule/ee/dw
	http://www.mulesoft.org/schema/mule/ee/dw/current/dw.xsd
	http://www.springframework.org/schema/beans
	http://www.springframework.org/schema/beans/spring-beans-current.xsd
	http://www.mulesoft.org/schema/mule/core
	http://www.mulesoft.org/schema/mule/core/current/mule.xsd
	http://www.mulesoft.org/schema/mule/http
	http://www.mulesoft.org/schema/mule/http/current/mule-http.xsd
	http://www.mulesoft.org/schema/mule/ee/core
	http://www.mulesoft.org/schema/mule/ee/core/current/mule-ee.xsd
	http://www.mulesoft.org/schema/mule/ec2
	http://www.mulesoft.org/schema/mule/ec2/current/mule-ec2.xsd">

       <!-- Put your global configuration elements and flows here -->

</mule>
----

> == Using the Connector in a Mule App in Anypoint Studio 7.0 or higher

Reviewer: ```suggestion
== Using the Connector in a Mule App in Anypoint Studio 7.0 or later
```

> If you are coding a Mavenized Mule application, include this snippet in your `pom.xml` file.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you are coding a Mavenized Mule application, include this snippet in your `pom.xml` file:
```

[source,xml,linenums]
----
<dependency>
    <groupId>com.mulesoft.connectors</groupId>
    <artifactId>mule-amazon-ec2-connector</artifactId>
    <version>RELEASE</version>
    <classifier>mule-plugin</classifier>
</dependency>
----

> The Mule runtime engine translates the `RELEASE` dependency keyword to the current version.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Mule runtime engine translates the `RELEASE` dependency keyword to the current version.
```

To obtain the most up-to-date `pom.xml` file information, access the connector in https://www.mulesoft.com/exchange/[Anypoint Exchange] and click *Dependency Snippets*.

[[use-cases-and-demos]]
== Use Cases and Demos

> Listed below are a few common use cases for the connector:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Following are a few common use cases for the connector:
```

[%autowidth]

> |===

Reviewer: This table could easily be replaced by a bullet list comprising only the text in the first column. The text in the second adds little to no value.

Here is a copyedit, primarily to use active voice, in case you disagree:

Starting an Amazon EC2 instance |When you use Amazon EC2, you can start an Amazon EBS-backed AMI that you've previously stopped.
[SHOULDN'T THIS BE RESTARTING, THEN?]
|Stopping an Amazon EC2 instance |When you use Amazon EC2, you can stop an Amazon EBS-backed instance.
|Creating an EBS volume |When you use Amazon EC2, you can create an EBS volume that can be attached to an instance in the same Availability Zone.
|Attaching an EBS volume to an Amazon EC2 instance |When you use Amazon EC2, you can attach an EBS volume to a running or stopped Amazon EC2 instance.

|===

[[example-use-case]]
=== Demo Mule App Using the Connector

This demo creates an EBS volume that can be attached to an EC2 instance in the same Availability Zone.

> 

Reviewer: Lines 467-468
. Create a new Mule project in Anypoint Studio.
. To create a separate credentials file, add the following properties to `mule-artifact.properties` and place it in the project's `src/main/resources` directory.

amazon.region=<Region>
----
+
. Drag an HTTP Listener operation onto the canvas and configure the following parameters:
+
image::amazon/amazon-ec2-http-props.png[ec2 HTTP configure properties]
+
[%header,cols="30s,70a"]
|===
|Studio Field |Value
|Display Name |Listener

> |Extension Configuration | If no HTTP Listener configuration has been created yet, click the plus sign to add a new HTTP Listener Configuration and click OK (Give values "localhost" and "8081" for Host and Port columns).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|Extension Configuration | If no HTTP Listener configuration exists, click the plus sign (+) to add a new HTTP Listener configuration, providing the values `localhost` and `8081` for Host and Port, and click *OK*.
```

|Path |/createVolume
|===
+
. Drag the Amazon EC2 Connector *Create volume* operation next to the HTTP Listener component.

> . Configure the EC2 connector by adding a new Amazon EC2 global element. Click *+* next to the *Connector Configuration* field.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Configure the EC2 connector by adding a new Amazon EC2 global element and click *+* next to the *Connector Configuration* field.
```

> .. Configure the global element according to the table below:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Configure the global element as follows:
```

+
[%header,cols="30s,40a,30a"]
|===
|Studio Field |Description |Value

> |Name |Enter a name for the configuration to reference it. |`<Configuration_Name>`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|Name |Name for the configuration |`<Configuration_Name>`
```

> |Access Key |Alphanumeric text string that uniquely identifies the user who owns the account. |`${amazon.accesskey}`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|Access Key |Alphanumeric text string that uniquely identifies the user who owns the account |`${amazon.accesskey}`
```

> |Secret Key |Key that plays the role of a password. |`${amazon.secretkey}`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|Secret Key |Key that acts as a password. |`${amazon.secretkey}`
```

> |Region Endpoint |Region to be select from drop down for the Amazon EC2 Client. |`USEAST1`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|Region Endpoint |Region to select from the drop-down menu for the Amazon EC2 client |`USEAST1`
```

> |===

Reviewer: I'm not familiar with the format .. ?

.. Your configuration should look like this:
+
image::amazon/amazon-ec2-use-case-config.png[ec2 use case config]
+
.. The corresponding XML configuration should be as follows:
+
[source,xml,linenums]
----
<ec2:config 
	name="Amazon_EC2_configuration" 
	doc:name="Amazon EC2 Configuration" >
<ec2:basic-connection 
	accessKey="${amazon.accesskey}" 
	secretKey="${amazon.secretkey}" 
	region="${amazon.region}" />
</ec2:config>
----
+

> . Click *Test Connection* to confirm that Mule can connect with the EC2 instance. If the connection is successful, click *OK* to save the configurations. Otherwise, review or correct any incorrect parameters, then test again.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Click *Test Connection*.
. If the connection is successful, click *OK* to save the configuration; otherwise, review or correct any incorrect parameters, and then test again.
```

. Back in the properties editor of the Amazon EC2 Create volume operation, configure the remaining parameters:
+
[%header,cols="30s,70a"]
|===
|Studio Field |Value
|Display Name |Create Volume (or any other name you prefer)
2+|Basic Settings

> |Extension Configuration |Amazon_EC2_Configuration (the reference name to the global element you have created)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|Extension Configuration |Amazon_EC2_Configuration (the name you created for the global element)
```

Reviewer: Lines 528-531
2+|General
|Availability Zone |us-east-1a (or any other availability zone to which you have access)
|Size |5 (the size of the volume, in gibibytes (GiBs))
|Volume Type |Standard (the default volume type)

+

> . Check that your XML looks like this:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Verify that your XML looks like this:
```

+
[source,xml,linenums]
----
<ec2:create-volume 
	config-ref="Amazon_EC2_configuration" 
	availabilityZone="us-east-1a" 
	doc:name="Create volume" 
	size="5"/>
----
+

> . Add a Set Payload transformer after the Amazon EC2 Create Volume operation to send the response to the client in the browser. Configure the Set Payload transformer according to the table below.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Add a Set Payload transformer, configured as follows, after the Amazon EC2 Create Volume operation to send the response to the client in the browser:
```

+
[%header,cols="30s,70a"]
|===
|Studio Field |Value
|Display Name |Set Payload (or any other name you prefer)

> |Value |`#[payload.volume.volumeId]` (to print the volume ID of the EBS volume we created)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|Value |`#[payload.volume.volumeId]` (to print the volume ID of the EBS volume you created)
```

+

> . Add a Logger component after the Set Payload transformer to print the Volume ID that is being transformed by the Set Payload transformer from the Create Volume operation in the Mule Console. Configure the Logger according to the table below.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Add a Logger component, configured as follows, after the Set Payload transformer to print the Volume ID that is being transformed by the Set Payload transformer from the Create Volume operation in the Mule Console:
```

+
[%header,cols="30s,70a"]
|===
|Studio Field |Value
|Display Name |Logger (or any other name you prefer)
|Message |`#[payload]`
|Level |INFO
|===
+
image::amazon/amazon-ec2-create-volume-logger-props.png[ec2 create volume logger]
+

> . Save and Run the project as a Mule Application. Right-click the project in Package Explorer and click *Run As* > *Mule Application*.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Save and run the project as a Mule app by right-clicking the project in Package Explorer and clicking *Run As* > *Mule Application*.
```

> . Open a browser and check the response after entering the URL `+http://localhost:8081/createVolume+`. You should see the generated Volume ID in the browser and the console.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Enter `+http://localhost:8081/createVolume+` in a browser and confirm that you see the generated Volume ID in the browser and the console:
```

> [[example-code]]

Reviewer: Line 567
Paste this code into your XML editor to quickly load the flow for this example use case to your Mule app:
